in many countries around the world
certainly english-speaking countries the
concept of harassment has been legally
defined from the top down by people and
authority in order to restraint your
freedom of speech and your right to
protest when you look into the laws in
the particular country live in you'll
find that some of those restraints
exists for good reason and some not so
much I'm a Canadian citizen living in
China the legal definition of harassment
in Canada is actually quite good and
useful and worth knowing even if you're
not Canadian if for example you are
British you will probably quite envious
of how clear lucid and useful or legal
definition of harassment is in Canada in
contrast to the morass of really lousy
laws that you have in England now the
concept of harassment it comes up here
on the internet basically when one
internet opinion maker is trying to
deprive another of the right to express
their opinion something I find rather
sad and pathetic almost all the time but
also comes up in the world of real world
activism street activism protests mmm
organized dissent of almost any kind in
every kind in England after about 1997
they had an extremely vaguely worded law
that was used to punish protesters
anti-war protesters environmental
protesters all kinds of different to the
political protesters but it included the
caveat that a protester must speak to
someone twice or give a you know a hand
written notice or express themselves
repeatedly to a person before what they
did could be considered harassment and I
read many articles complaining now i
have to admit these were very biased
articles and very biased sources in
england complaining that at that time
people were charged with harassment of
people expressing their political
opinions political dissent political
protest for example by sending an email
that went to the same recipient twice
they could then be charged with
harassment and one of the most extreme
examples was allegedly again I was
really from a biased source but
allegedly a couple husband and wife who
were standing on the street holding
their baby
well protesting against an arms show so
you know weapons expo where the arms
industry promotes their their products
there were pro piece or anti-war
protesters everyone say and they were
charged with harassment for standing
there on the street I think they had a
sign and I think they were handing out
leaflets under this law is that existed
now again these were biased sources you
have to be very careful one of the most
extremist representations of a peaceful
protest in the mainstream press was an
ecological activist group called move mo
ve you can very quickly find sources on
the internet that claimed these were
nonviolent protesters who were somehow
very unfairly brutalized by police if
you do a little bit of digging a little
bit of reading of objective sources and
the bare facts the police were facing
against it was definitely not
non-violence there were very real
weapons charges and although the police
ultimately did use violence against that
groove if you go through step by step
who did what at which time you'll find
that basically supporters of the group
published a lot of misinformation
Internet so even that example I just
gave that i read i read in an ostensibly
honest article about that couple with a
baby standing and peacefully protesting
i don't really know how peaceful they
were I only know this one kind of biased
account I myself as a vegan back when I
had a newborn baby I can remember going
to political events with my wife who's
now my ex-wife and I'm where I was
literally holding a newborn baby in my
arms attending political events related
veganism so obviously that's a it's an
example I sympathize with immediately
it's very effective propaganda but is it
really true you know that article maybe
it just failed to mention that the same
people were lighting bonfires you know
something very simple like that might
justify what the police did and might
just not be mentioned in a biased
account of these things so today with
that caveat haven't been stated the laws
that were in place in England around the
late 1990s 1997 has ever call they were
already absurdly repressive observed a
restrictive of freedom of speech the
right to to protest in dissent in the
name of harassment and they left the
concept of harassment incredibly
legally defined that got even worse with
a notorious law written in 2005 called
the Serious Organised Crime and police
act now I remember reading an article
objecting to this legal act by George
mom Bo a famous journalist before making
this video I googled mom bo to see how
many articles he had made following up
on that and I could only find one
article i could only been one article by
mom bo that had the name of that law in
it so it seems to me that he lost
interest in it fairly quickly maybe I'm
mistaken maybe he's written about it in
books or in some format that I couldn't
I couldn't find the internet with a
quick Google search um however this
relates back to vegans animal rights and
ecology in many ways to quote Wikipedia
itself the Serious Organised Crime and
police act of 2005 according to Baroness
Scotland of a shawl promoting the bill
in the House of Lords this provision and
the associated provisions of section 3a
were intended to strengthen quote the
protection afforded to the bioscience
industry and those who work in it close
quote including quote making it an
offence to protest outside a person's
home in a way that causes harassment
alarm or distress to the residents of
that home close quote now in an earlier
video I made that was defending sorcerer
merova because people have accused sir
shimmer above being a militant vegan I
talked a little bit about the history of
real militant vegans in the United
Kingdom animal rights extremists who
from my perspective were pretty much
lunatics and who really given us all a
bad name people who engage in violent
and non-democratic protest and it is
true that they have also informed a
generation of legislators of lawmakers
of people in positions of power who are
now incredibly strongly biased against
us peaceful protesters democratic
organized dissenters in my generation
have to deal with the legacy of really
lousy activism from the older generation
and the writing of this law reflects
that now section 1a so I hate this I
hate reading text I really prefer
do a completely spontaneous recording
but let's get this right so serious
organized crime police act pardon me now
I'm gonna sneeze true you see how hard
it is to be a youtuber I don't have to
wear costumes or you know put on accents
the way vegan gains does but still hard
work anyway the actual wording that I'll
remember for the rest of my life is that
the it makes illegal as harassment any
acts undertaken with the with the
intention of persuading a person to do
something they do not want to do or to
not do something that they do want to do
so i think i fixed that up so the law is
so vaguely worded if you ask what really
is harassment under this law harassment
can be trying to persuade anyone to not
do something they do want to do or to do
something they do not want to do if
they're legally allowed to do that thing
so this was brought up in the old days
there were protests against McDonald's
in England in the United Kingdom and
naturally a protest that tries to
convince people do not eat at McDonald's
would therefore be harassment under this
law almost any expression of political
dissent is an attempt to convince people
to do something or not do something so
these are sweeping laws that have
terrible implications for us as vegans
anyone interested in ecology or animal
rights frankly anyone who's sincerely
interested democracy and in making the
world a better place it's terrifying now
in contrast to this and look this is why
I say many times I really do believe in
freedom of speech I really do stick up
for the freedom of speech of people like
sorcerer merova and people like
durianrider people who are not my
friends for my fellow vegans freedom of
speech is tremendously important
understanding what harassment is and how
it pertains to you as a vegan as it
activists as a protester how it pertains
to you on the internet how it pertains
to you on the street etc in the country
you live in is also tremendously
important we live in an era where not on
the one hand people in positions of real
authority
empower people in the political
establishment vilify protesters try to
punish political dissidents as if they
were stalkers as if they were terrorists
as if they were guilty of harassment in
this incredibly vague definition of
harassment and then the other hand we
have this kind of really crummy
subculture of people on the internet who
don't want to engage in debate or
uncomfortable with a debate simply
trying to shut someone down by saying
that they're guilty of harassment by
expressing their opinion in a debate and
I saw that I had comments coming in
saying that that Sorcha Miraval was
guilty of harassment um because what she
called someone dumb she called someone
the dumbest youtuber calling someone
dumb is not harassment and you know you
may say it's inarticulate you may say
it's unintelligent you may say it's a
poor argument okay fine you know
continue the debate engage in critique
maybe you have something deeper and more
meaningful to say than just to call
somebody dumb or what have you but it's
not harassment and we as vegans should
not be silencing one another in this way
but calling things harassment that are
not now some of you will know there's a
totally phony controversy saying that
some of the articles of my former blog
or harassment I would like to state my
informed opinion that not a single one
of the blog entries on my blog qualify
as harassment definitely under Canadian
law I'll tell you Canadian legal
definition of harassment just a moment
because it's of interest to me as I'm
Canadian I'm not British I'm not stuck
with the really lousy definitions of
harassment in England and by the way if
you are a political activist of any kind
vegan or non vegan you should get
organized to change the laws in England
so you have a responsible and meaningful
definition for assmann oh and I wanted
to say as a concession to the other side
I sympathize with these legislators so
what Baroness Scotland of a shall and
the House of Lords these people may be
[ __ ] I have no reason to sympathize
of them but let me tell you I think
there are real questions here most of
the legislation about the right to
public protest assumes that those
protests take place in a public square
to take place at they take place at City
Hall at a local provincial Parliament at
some kind of appropriate venue I think
the rash is an open question of whether
or not it should be
legal to protest at someone's house and
they were responding to the militancy
and extremism and real violence of
animal rights protesters and people like
us people who were variously vegetarian
vegan what have you animal rights
protesters who were you know doing
really unforgivable illegal and violent
things to try to intimidate university
professors and scientific researchers
who were you know engaged in vivisection
but the response again in my earlier
video that talks about Sorcha and talks
about who is a militant and what is the
meaning of the word militant I you know
I think I gave a really stirring example
of that and really asked some of the
tough questions we're vegans have to
look in the mirror and look back to
around history and realize we have a
better reputation for a reason and we're
stuck with it I'm not comfortably
against violence I completely support
only nonviolent protests working within
the democratic system if you live in a
democracy if you don't live in a
democracy you know very different set of
questions to ask yourself about how
you're going to bring about social net
loss you'll change it's very sad but
speaking for the Western democracies of
the world we need to be aware of what
the legal definitions of harassment are
we can change those legal definitions
precisely by lobbying Parliament what
have you but also if you're engaged in
any form of protest that comes up close
to the definition of harassment you need
to really reconsider your strategy you
need to reconsider your methods what
you're doing and why you're doing it any
case coming back to my blog I do not
believe a single one of the written
entries on my blog counts as harassment
and none of them are even using coarse
language or insults near the level of
normal reddit conversation of these
discussion forums like read it on the
Internet none of them were all that racy
or shocking but with that being said
back when the blog was still ongoing
back when this was new and people
writing to me I remember there only
being one person these are all anonymous
people who wrote in with me to actually
debate what I was doing on the book
wrote and said that they you know to
talk to me about whether or not this was
harassment what I was doing in the blog
I remember you know they lost the
argument they lost the conversate they
lost the debate I said very simply well
you have to compare
what I'm doing on this blog to what any
newspaper new pardon me to what any
newspaper did in the world of old media
your claim this person writing to me
their claim was that simply by taking a
photograph of a person that's publicly
available and putting a quotation on
that photograph that is accurately
quoting what the person said like a
screenshot of something they said on on
Twitter that you're claiming that is
harassment and in the contrary that's
what every newspaper in the world does
every day now I think in different
countries there might be an interesting
debate to be had what if I take your
photograph and then I modify it to make
you look ugly or to make you look fat or
to make you look sick newspapers do that
also now should that be legal or illegal
that's a different question in some
countries it's legal in some hunters
it's illegal to modify photograph in
some countries it's legal only if you
have a footnote at the bottom saying
that you've you've modified the
photograph that it's not accurate what
if I have your photograph and then I put
on top of it a quote that you didn't say
what if I have a photograph of the Prime
Minister of Canada but it's actually a
quote from the Prime Minister of France
what if it's a photograph of Obama but I
have a quote from I don't know someone
from the Republican Party I've Mitt
Romney I have somebody else quoted it's
not something Obama said is that
harassment now actually I think almost
nowhere in the world would that be
considered harassment maybe in Singapore
something maybe in some of the countries
that have very very tight restrictions
on freedom of the press and freedom of
expression but actually even if you did
that even if you were distorting the
photograph even if you were distorting
what the person had said or
misrepresenting what the person said it
still isn't harassment but what I did in
that blog and having a photograph of
someone and then having a quote from
them how could anyone possibly define
that as harassment even in this world
where as I've just described in England
governments often have I think cynically
passed laws that define harassment so
broadly that anything can be harassment
so I mean in England if I try to
convince you to do something or not do
something you know legally under under
under an act given the absurd title the
Serious Organised Crime and police act
yes this is not serious organised crime
this could be harassment and in fact
people can be deprived with their
freedom of speech and again some very
biased articles of red had very stirring
examples of people being given criminal
records and having to face courts for
what should be proper democratic
exercise of their freedom of speech I'm
not British probably some of the
commenters below this video will know
more but what I'm tell you because their
lives have been more cut up in this sort
of thing and I've also said at the same
time I think there are debates to be had
you know probably some countries should
pass laws saying okay look it's okay to
protests in a public place and define
what a public place is but maybe it's
not okay to protest on somebody's front
lawn or to protest even in front of an
apartment building where people are
trying to sleep at night you know I I'm
actually open minded about that I think
different countries can come up with
different practical solutions for where
and when protests can happen when I was
in Canada I did not feel that you should
be able to protest where you would
actually interrupt the flow of traffic
in front of the hospital that you know
ultimately you know an ambulance needs
to be able to drive in and drive out of
a hospital so when and where you can
interrupt traffic I think legally and
morally I think that's an important
question asked and if you watching this
if you're organizing a vegan group now
or a political protest group you can
resolve these problems yourself you
don't have to wait for Parliament you
don't have to wait for the Constitution
your country to change write your own
constitution for your political group
and define say if you are a member of
this group this is what's acceptable and
this is what's not acceptable you should
explicitly define that you embrace only
nonviolent methods and you should
explicitly define which methods of
protests are acceptable and which are
not acceptable so for your group if you
make a moral commitment that you're not
going to harass people at their home
you're only going to protest in front of
City Hall in front of parliament in
these kinds of places but that's a
commitment you can put in writing and
you can have everyone who joins your
group sign a memorandum or read and sign
that they understand the Constitution
for your political party for your for
your group for your Lobby however you
want to define it so I just say you
don't have to wait for other people to
define that from you for you from the
top down
it's very useful for us as activists and
if you're forming a foundation of any
kind define it for yourself you decide
what's appropriate you decide your
ethical commitments and then if you have
a member of your group of sucks to get
it a line you can remind them you made a
moral commitment you join this group to
only work within these guidelines so now
if you're breaking the guidelines we
could ask you to leave now in my own
life in the last couple of years I have
had to invoke the legal definition of
harassment in Canada many times for the
following peculiar reason when i was at
the university of victoria i formally
complained that the courses i was
attending work garbage now legally I can
come here and state on the record with
no fear of being sued that the courses
were garbage because I went through that
complete complaints process I filled out
all the forms and so on I did not
protest I did not yell at anyone I did
not interrupt the flow of traffic I went
to the office of the ombudsman which is
a formal bureaucratic way to complain I
found out what the correct procedure was
to complain that of course the
university was lousy I took that
complaint to the head of the program the
head of the program took it to the head
of the department the head of the
department took it to the Dean so then I
was in a complaints process a formal
complaints process that involved the
Dean head of my department ultimately
the professors teaching the course and
the Office of the Ombudsman a lot of
paperwork a lot of stress now the Dean
lost patience and the Dean tried to
intimidate me into basically giving up
on this complaint that the course was
garbage and it's as real serious impacts
for my life it does I went to that
University just to learn Chinese is a
language and the Chinese language
courses were garbage and I gave detailed
very responsible accounts of exactly why
the course was garbage exactly what the
course did not live up to the minimum
standard that she live up to and the
Dean responded to this by accusing me of
harassment and saying that I could be
punished or I could be kicked out of the
university if I continue with this
harassment this is a great example of
how the concept of harassment is abused
to shut down descent when the university
should have been taking my feedback
seriously and really looking at what was
wrong with this course and how the
course
fixed because the course could be fixed
really it would not be impossible all
for them to have made very serious
improvements of that course with very
little effort very little money they
didn't want to do that it was easier for
them to try to silence the one student
who was willing to really step forward
and complaint the vast majority of
students were much easier to intimidate
into silence because they just wanted to
get good grades they just want to get on
with their lives even though I think
every single student I talk to you about
that course agreed that the course was
absolutely terrible or was deeply
disappointing they had slightly
different opinions on it from different
perspectives as you'd expect however I'm
much older than the other students I'm
much more confident I'm much more able
to operate in a tense political
atmosphere which is exactly what I had
to deal with I had to go sit in a
boardroom and look at the Dean in his
face and present complaints on paper and
present the complaints verbally and go
through bureaucratic process now
apartment the fact that it would be
observed under any circumstances to
accuse a student of being of be engaging
in harassment when that student has
followed exactly this process has done
the paperwork I mean it's a student
following the complaints process is
guilty of harassment that nobody has the
right to complain right it must be that
you know the official complaints process
can't be harassment by definition but I
didn't even have to deal with that kind
of argument all I did again and again
was quote to him the law in Canada that
defines harassment I said no this is not
harassment this is me very properly and
correctly complaining to your course is
terrible and the law in Canada very
nicely defines harassment as something
that would cause the other person to
feel fear and if you look at the precise
wording it specifies that it would cause
a reasonable person to feel afraid now
there are many funny examples of the
Sinister of the world I think when they
wrote that in Canada they were really
thinking of iconic biker gangs because
many of our legislators in Canada are a
bit obsessed with biker gangs as
symbolizing organized crime but the
point is if for example a biker gang
brings a whole group of motorcycles in
front of your house and just parks them
there
they may not be threatening you they may
not state any threat but if this is in
the context of you having a conflict
with these biker gangs if for example a
journalist has been writing articles
about the biker gangs and their illegal
activities and then mysteriously 50
motorcycles are parked in front of that
journalists house the point is this law
is worded in a way so this could be
addressed as harassment if someone takes
a snake and puts it on your desk or
takes a snake inputs in your mailbox
even if the snake is not venomous the
snake couldn't actually harm you it may
not be a threat but under this Canadian
law it may be harassment now again we
could use the example of a journalist if
someone is trying to threaten a
journalist they might indeed put a snake
in their mailbox I remember one case of
that happening specifically or put a
snake on their desk now on the other
hand the reason why it says that whether
or not because a reasonable person to
feel afraid in those circumstances on
the other hand if you're a scientist who
studies snakes maybe putting a snake on
your desk is completely normal it
happens every day at your office and you
know the law shouldn't be applied in
this way so it's written in a way to be
somewhat flexible these the
circumstances were living in in 2016
most english-speaking Western countries
have extremely vague laws defining what
harassment is and these impact veganism
and all rights in ecology negatively in
two different ways I've said it before
but I'll say it again and that in this
video one is the actual enforcement of
these laws from the top down which is
sporadic it's inconsistent it only
happens once the while with no
explanation but it's a major problem for
us as a movement you know the fact that
in England anything can be punished as
harassment any political movement it
doesn't mean that everything is
publishers harassment but once in a
while they can decide that any animal
rights group or ecological group or
someone who protests in front of
mcdonalds trying to convince people not
see them acknowledge that they are
guilty of harassment under the serious
organised crime and police act and it
happens sometimes but the fact that
these laws are not enforced all the time
doesn't mean that a law this kite isn't
having a chilling effect on the use of
free speech at all times it does and the
secondary knock-on effect which is
something we can all solve today and we
can all end tomorrow is exactly that
vegans accuse other vegans of harassment
and you need to stop and meditate on
what that really means and what the
implications really are what does it
mean to accuse sorcerer mirada of
harassment I've already said she's not
guilty of being a militant to my
knowledge she's not guilty of harassment
I haven't seen every video she's made
but someone making a comedy video that
caused call someone else an idiot they
call someone else dumb that is not
harassment especially not under Canada's
definition it's not a threat it's not
something that would cause them to be
afraid it's not something that would
suppress their use of freedom of speech
on the contrary we as vegans you may
make you feel more intelligent to
reproach someone like Sorcha by saying
she's guilty of harassment but in
reality what you're doing is stifling
freedom speech you're stifling you know
our potential for dissent for debate and
ultimately to get organized and engage
in real world activism